By Yasin Ebrahim

Investing.com -- Disney (NYSE:DIS) on Wednesday reported better-than-expected fiscal first-quarter results led by strong performance in its theme parks business. The entertainment company also detailed plans for a major restructuring that will include 7,000 job cuts.

The stock was up 6.3% in afterhours trading.

Walt Disney Company announced earnings per share of $0.99 on revenue of $23.51 billion. Analysts polled by Investing.com anticipated EPS of $0.79 on revenue of $23.43B.

The firm's Disney Parks, Experiences and Products business reported a 21% jump in revenue to $8.74B, supported by growth at Disneyland Paris and higher royalties from Tokyo Disney Resort, Disney said, though this was partially offset by a decrease at Shanghai Disney Resort.

The direct-to-consumer business saw revenues for the quarter increase 13% to $5.3B, though operating losses widened to $0.5B to $1.1B, driven by a "higher loss at Disney+ and a decrease in results at Hulu, partially offset by improved results at ESPN+," the company said.

Disney+ added 161.8 million subscribers in the fiscal first quarter, down from 164.2M in the prior quarter. 

The average monthly revenue per paid subscriber for domestic Disney+ decreased from $6.10 to $5.95, pressured by a "higher mix of subscribers to multi-product offerings, partially offset by an increase in retail pricing," Disney added.

In a conference call that followed the earnings report, Disney also announced that it would cut 7,000 jobs as part of an effort to restructure the business to reduce costs and bolster profit margins.

The entertainment company is aiming to achieve $5.5B in cost savings in a move that will restructure the company into three businesses: an entertainment business, the ESPN sports networks business, and the theme-park business. 

Disney is under pressure from activist investor Nelson Peltz to rein in costs. Peltz’s Trian Partners, which owns about 0.5% in Disney, is locked in battle with Disney for a board seat at the April 3 annual meeting after his request was denied last month.

Peltz has been pushing for changes at the company including better governance, cost cuts and dividend reinstatement by 2025.